Added UISceneDelegate breaking change notice. (#12082)
flutter/website: src/content/release/breaking-changes/uiscenedelegate.md

---
title: UISceneDelegate adoption
description: >
  A guide for Flutter iOS developers to adopt Apple's UISceneDelegate protocol.
---

## Summary

Apple is requiring iOS developers to adopt the UISceneDelegate protocol which
changes the order of initialization when applications launch. Certain usages of
Flutter inside `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` on iOS will have to
be updated.

## Background

Most Flutter users will not have custom logic inside of
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`. Those apps will not need to do

> any migration.

Reviewer: They will need to migrate their Info.plist if we can't automatically do it, right?

Apple is requiring the adoption of the `UISceneDelegate` which reorders the
initialization of iOS apps. After a `UISceneDelegate` is specified,
initialization of the Storyboard will be delayed until after
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`. That means
`UIApplicationDelegate.window` and
`UIApplicationDelegate.window.rootViewController` cannot be accessed from
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`.

Apple is driving the adoption of the `UISceneDelegate` API since it allows apps to have multiple instances of their UIs, like multitasking on iPadOS.

Previously, Flutter’s documentation would suggest that
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` was a good place to set up platform
channels for users that want easy interop between the host application and
Flutter. That is no longer a reliable place to register these platform channels
since the Flutter engine won’t have been created yet.

## Migration guide

### Info.plist migration

> `UISceneDelegate`s must be specified in an app’s Info.plist or specified in `application:configurationForConnectingSceneSession:options:`. The Flutter tool will attempt to automatically edit the Info.plist if no `UISceneDelegate` is specified, so nothing may be required beyond running flutter run or flutter build again. Projects can be manually upgraded by adding the following to the Info.plist. `FlutterSceneDelegate` is the new class in the Flutter framework that users can use as the `UISceneDelegate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`UISceneDelegate`s must be specified in an app’s Info.plist or specified in `application:configurationForConnectingSceneSession:options:`. The Flutter tool will attempt to automatically edit the Info.plist if no `UISceneDelegate` is specified, so nothing may be required beyond running `flutter run` or `flutter build ios` again. Projects can be manually upgraded by adding the following to the Info.plist. `FlutterSceneDelegate` is the new class in the Flutter framework that users can use as the `UISceneDelegate`.
```

```plist
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
 <key>UIApplicationSceneManifest</key>
 <dict>
  <key>UIApplicationSupportsMultipleScenes</key>
  <false/>
  <key>UISceneConfigurations</key>
  <dict>
  <key>UIWindowSceneSessionRoleApplication</key>
    <array>
      <dict>
        <key>UISceneClassName</key>
        <string>UIWindowScene</string>
        <key>UISceneDelegateClassName</key>
        <string>FlutterSceneDelegate</string>
        <key>UISceneConfigurationName</key>
        <string>flutter</string>
        <key>UISceneStoryboardFile</key>
        <string>Main</string>
      </dict>
    </array>
   </dict>
 </dict>
</dict>

> ```

Reviewer: Perhaps include an image for those who do it through the GUI?

![Screenshot 2025-05-29 at 8 48 43 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bc77642d-3af2-4000-90ca-a9258d092091)

> ### Creating platform channels in `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`

Reviewer: Should give Swift and ObjC examples, preferably with tabs like this:

https://github.com/flutter/website/blob/0c55737b87811867bf2c29695f54e203819478a1/src/content/platform-integration/platform-channels.md?plain=1#L592-L593

For users creating `FlutterViewController`s programmatically, they can continue
to operate as before. User’s relying on Storyboards (and XIBs) that are creating
platform channels in `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` should now use
the `FlutterPluginRegistrant` API to accomplish the same thing.

#### Before

```swift
@UIApplicationMain
@objc class AppDelegate: FlutterAppDelegate {
  override func application(
      _ application: UIApplication,
      didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
    let controller : FlutterViewController = window?.rootViewController as! FlutterViewController
    let batteryChannel = FlutterMethodChannel(name: "samples.flutter.dev/battery",
                                              binaryMessenger: controller.binaryMessenger)
    batteryChannel.setMethodCallHandler({
      [weak self] (call: FlutterMethodCall, result: FlutterResult) -> Void in
      // This method is invoked on the UI thread.
      // Handle battery messages.
    })

    GeneratedPluginRegistrant.register(with: self)
    return super.application(application, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions: launchOptions)
  }
}
```

> #### After - Option 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### After - Option 1 (Recommended)
```

```swift

> @objc class PluginRegistrant: FlutterPluginRegistrant {

Reviewer: What file do you add this to?

  func registerPlugins(_ registry: FlutterPluginRegistry) {
    let registrar = registry.registrar(forPlugin: "battery")
    let batteryChannel = FlutterMethodChannel(name: "samples.flutter.dev/battery",
                                              binaryMessenger: registrar.messenger)
    batteryChannel.setMethodCallHandler({
      [weak self] (call: FlutterMethodCall, result: FlutterResult) -> Void in
      // This method is invoked on the UI thread.
      // Handle battery messages.
    })

    GeneratedPluginRegistrant.register(with: registry)
  }
}
```

> The first option where `PluginRegistrant` is hooked up to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this option the `PluginRegistrant` is hooked up to the
```

`FlutterViewController.pluginRegistrant` `IBOutlet` in the Storyboard. This option

> is preferred since it avoids the `UIApplicationDelegate`.

Reviewer: How do you "hook it up" in the Storyboard?

`UIApplicationDelegate.window` and
`UIApplicationDelegate.window.rootViewController` cannot be accessed from
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`.

Apple is driving the adoption of the `UISceneDelegate` API since it allows apps
to have multiple instances of their UIs, like multitasking on iPadOS.

Previously, Flutter’s documentation would suggest that
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` was a good place to set up platform
channels for users that want easy interop between the host application and
Flutter. That is no longer a reliable place to register these platform channels
since the Flutter engine won’t have been created yet.

## Migration guide

### Info.plist migration

`UISceneDelegate`s must be specified in an app’s Info.plist or specified in
`application:configurationForConnectingSceneSession:options:`. The Flutter tool
will attempt to automatically edit the Info.plist if no `UISceneDelegate` is
specified, so nothing may be required beyond running `flutter run` or `flutter
build` again. Projects can be manually upgraded by adding the following to the
Info.plist. `FlutterSceneDelegate` is the new class in the Flutter framework

> that users can use as the `UISceneDelegate`.

Author: Done, slightly different change since the suggestion deleted "that" which was needed still.

> ```plist

Reviewer: Seems like this is breaking the tests, maybe try `xml`?
```suggestion
```xml
```

Author: done

      // This method is invoked on the UI thread.
      // Handle battery messages.
    })

    GeneratedPluginRegistrant.register(with: registry)
  }
}
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab "Obj-C" %}

```objc
@interface AppDelegate () <FlutterPluginRegistrant>
@end

@implementation AppDelegate
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication*)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary*)launchOptions {
  self.pluginRegistrant = self;
  return [super application:application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:launchOptions];
}

- (void)registerWithRegistry:(NSObject<FlutterPluginRegistry>*)registry {
  NSObject<FlutterPluginRegistrar>* registrar = [registry registrarForPlugin:@"battery"];
  FlutterMethodChannel* batteryChannel = [FlutterMethodChannel
                                          methodChannelWithName:@"samples.flutter.dev/battery"
                                          binaryMessenger:registrar.messenger];

  [batteryChannel setMethodCallHandler:^(FlutterMethodCall* call, FlutterResult result) {
    // This method is invoked on the UI thread.
    // TODO
  }];

  [GeneratedPluginRegistrant registerWithRegistry:registry];
}
@end
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> Set up the `FlutterPluginRegistrant` programmatically through the

Author: It's describing what is happening in the code blocks.  Would you like to see it before the code?

> Set up the `FlutterPluginRegistrant` programmatically through the

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that would be better, but it's not worth holding this PR up if folks are running into thi problem.

  FlutterViewController* controller = (FlutterViewController*)self.window.rootViewController;

  FlutterMethodChannel* batteryChannel = [FlutterMethodChannel
                                          methodChannelWithName:@"samples.flutter.dev/battery"
                                          binaryMessenger:controller.binaryMessenger];

  [batteryChannel setMethodCallHandler:^(FlutterMethodCall* call, FlutterResult result) {
    // This method is invoked on the UI thread.
    // TODO
  }];

  [GeneratedPluginRegistrant registerWithRegistry:self];
  return [super application:application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:launchOptions];
}
@end
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### After

{% tabs "darwin-language" %}
{% tab "Swift" %}

```swift
@UIApplicationMain
@objc class AppDelegate: FlutterAppDelegate, FlutterPluginRegistrant {
  override func application(
      _ application: UIApplication,
      didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
    pluginRegistrant = self
    return super.application(application, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions: launchOptions)
  }

  func register(with registry: any FlutterPluginRegistry) {

>     let registrar = registry.registrar(forPlugin: "battery")

Reviewer 3: > Bad things like the registrar returns nil?

Bad things like:
- It will NSAssert in debug mode
- It one of the registrars will be stomped in the engine's mapping, causing any future interactions with the registry to have unexpected behavior, with the exact behavior depending on the order of operations in engine logic.

> That's unfortunately inherent to the design of the plugins.

Not really. Actual plugins don't rely on individual developers to pick magic strings, we auto-generate them in the tool, where we can centrally control the set of strings and avoid collisions.

> We could provide a better example for plugin names, "flutter.dev/battery"?

The fundamental problem is that this *isn't* a plugin. I think we should address the fact that we are requiring developers to give something that isn't a plugin a "plugin name" in the first place.

    let batteryChannel = FlutterMethodChannel(name: "samples.flutter.dev/battery",

>                                               binaryMessenger: registrar.messenger)

Author: https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/12110
